
Do you lead or Do your follow: Understanding user experience of partnership with
artificial co-creators

Our understanding of how humans perceive and behave with computer co-creators is
guided by two theories of how humans treat computers, namely, humans treat
computers as other humans do, i.e., humans apply same norms as they apply to
humans to computers, and that humans treat computers differently compared to the
way that they treat other humans. But are computers really partners in the sense
that humans think that they are partners?

There are several effects that prompt us to observe that computers do not think
in the way that we often think that they are thinking. With interactive systems,
this is observed as the uncanny valley effect with systems when systems are
estimated more intelligent than they actually are (e.g., Eliza). It might be
reasonable to consider that computers are not probably partners in the way that
we think they are partners. This leaves open the question of - what kind of
partners are computers really (if not equivalent to human) and can there be
human computer partnership (HCP) ?

While computers may not be partners in the sense of humans are partners - they
may be able to impart a subjective experience that human might feel in
partnerships. Without resorting to comparisons between humans and machines, how
do we study the subjective sense of partnership that is engendered by
computational co-creators during interaction. For the rest of the paper, we
consider explore the issues of human-machine partnership in creative musical
duets.

In order to explore the issues of partnership, we conducted a study on duet
musical creation involving a human and an artificial co-creator.

We focused on the effects of negotiation strategy () and initiative
(Lead/Assist) on the user experience of partnership.

make decisions to maintain or change focused on strategies
that the agent uses to negotiate differences in understanding.

Musical duets are fun and engaging experiences, and allow the user to focus on
the aspects of the keep their experience as the central phenomenon.

We refer to the computer systems that collaborate with humans as computer
co-creators. The central question that is of concern then is - how can computer
co-creators that affect the subjective sense of human users be considered as
partners to human beings?

Can computers be partners to human beings

On the one hand, ability of computers to be team-mates to human user.

* Related work


** Factors that affect the subjective impressions

Related work on factors that affect the subjective impressions of the human user
about the partner during collaboration.

Past studies on human-team mate interaction have considered the effect of design
and attribution on the subjective impressions of the partner. The /design/
factor pertains to the actual behavior that the system exhibits and its
influence on the recognition of the machine as a partner. The attribution factor
concerns the knowledge of the co-creator as a human or a machine

/The perception of the teammate as the computer or the human (attribution) does/
/not seem to affect the problem solving behavior in prisoners dilemma or rule/
/discovery tasks./

People often have same biases across actual and imaginary partners in rule
discovery tasks

/While the actual behavior of the computer teammate affects individual/
/likability, the social likeability of the partner is additionally influenced
by/ /the humansâ€™ behavior during the interaction./

/Attribution does not play a role in problem solving behavior but may play a
role in social behavior such as reciprocity/

In some conditions there are two factors that influence the subjective
impressions that humans form about their computer co-creators. The individual
likeability depends on the actual behavior of the computer system, whereas the
social desirability of the system is influenced to a greater degree by the
behavior that humans themselves do during the task.
(does it mean that humans will have non-reciprocous partners?)

How does the actual behavior of the computer system play a role in engendering
partnerships.




** Discussion
